---
layout: post
author: Alex Morley
title: "Looking after myself - 6 months post slump"
---

Last night I got back from dinner around 9pm and started working on a talk. Nothing unusual about that, other than the fact that I haven't really worked a late evening (nor barely a weekend) for 6 months now. I'm 23, don't have any childcare to manage and I'm in relatively good health but, like so many other PhD students, last July I worked myself into a slump. Or rather a relatively catastrophic collapse. I eventually pulled out of a talk I was supposed to give at the last minute and finally talked to my supervisor about the state I was in.

I was dreading coming to work, even though I know (knew?) that I really do love the work that I'm doing. Once you feel a bit of pressure, you work extra hard for a couple of days, then you're tired the next day so you don't get anything done, then the pressure is back and you try to work hard again but you've not got the reserves you need. It's an easy cycle to get into, and one that got out of control for me. My PhD is important to me but I value my health (and the health of those who have to spend time with me) more.

The last few months I took a very concious decision to work less, or at least for less time, and I've acheived more than I did for the first two years of my PhD. Sure, some of that I'm sure is just bias because things that I worked on before are now coming together but a lot of it is just the fact that now I'm happy coming in and working really hard on something because I'm well-rested. My advice (take it as you wish) if you think progress has been really slow today and so you're gonna have to work through the evening. Stop, have a think, do I just need some sleep or some exercise, am I *really* going to get more done by working this evening than if I come back fresh tomorrow. And even if I would, is it worth the cost to my health.
